Text mining
Text mining, sometimes alternately referred to as text data mining, roughly equivalent to text analytics, refers to the process of deriving high-quality information from text. High-quality information is typically derived through the divining of patterns and trends through means such as statistical pattern learning. Text mining usually involves the process of structuring the input text (usually parsing, along with the addition of some derived linguistic features and the removal of others, and subsequent insertion into a database), deriving patterns within the structured data, and finally evaluation and interpretation of the output. 'High quality' in text mining usually refers to some combination of relevance, novelty, and interestingness. Typical text mining tasks include text categorization, text clustering, concept/entity extraction, production of granular taxonomies, sentiment analysis, document summarization, and entity relation modeling (i.e., learning relations between named entities).

Contents
1 History
2 Applications

2.1 Security applications
2.2 Biomedical applications
2.3 Software and applications
2.4 Online Media applications
2.5 Marketing applications
2.6 Sentiment analysis
2.7 Academic applications


2.1 Security applications
2.2 Biomedical applications
2.3 Software and applications
2.4 Online Media applications
2.5 Marketing applications
2.6 Sentiment analysis
2.7 Academic applications
3 Notable Software and applications

3.1 Notable Open-source software and applications


3.1 Notable Open-source software and applications
4 Implications
5 Notes
6 References
7 See also
8 External links

History
Labor-intensive manual text-mining approaches first surfaced in the mid-1980s, but technological advances have enabled the field to advance swiftly during the past decade. Text mining is an interdisciplinary field which draws on information retrieval, data mining, machine learning, statistics, and computational linguistics. As most information (common estimates say over 80%[1]) is currently stored as text, text mining is believed to have a high commercial potential value. Increasing interest is being paid to multilingual data mining: the ability to gain information across languages and cluster similar items from different linguistic sources according to their meaning.
Applications
Recently, text mining has received attention in many areas.
Security applications
Many text mining software packages are marketed towards security applications, particularly analysis of plain text sources such as Internet news.
Biomedical applications
A range of text mining applications in the biomedical literature has been described.[2] One example is PubGene that combines biomedical text mining with network visualization as an Internet service.[3] Another example, which uses ontologies with textmining is GoPubMed.org.[4] Semantic similarity has also been used by text-mining systems, namely, GOAnnotator. [5]
Software and applications
Research and development departments of major companies, including IBM and Microsoft, are researching text mining techniques and developing programs to further automate the mining and analysis processes. Text mining software is also being researched by different companies working in the area of search and indexing in general as a way to improve their results.
Online Media applications
Text mining is being used by large media companies, such as the Tribune Company, to disambiguate information and to provide readers with greater search experiences, which in turn increases site "stickiness" and revenue. Additionally, on the back end, editors are benefiting by being able to share, associate and package news across properties, significantly increasing opportunities to monetize content.
Marketing applications
Text mining is starting to be used in marketing as well, more specifically in analytical Customer relationship management. Coussement and Van den Poel (2008) apply it to improve predictive analytics models for customer churn (Customer attrition).[6]
Sentiment analysis
Sentiment analysis may, for example, involve analysis of movie reviews for estimating how favorable a review is for a movie.[7] Such an analysis may require a labeled data set or labeling of the affectivity of words. A resource for affectivity of words has been made for WordNet.[8]

Academic applications
The issue of text mining is of importance to publishers who hold large databases of information requiring indexing for retrieval. This is particularly true in scientific disciplines, in which highly specific information is often contained within written text. Therefore, initiatives have been taken such as Nature's proposal for an Open Text Mining Interface (OTMI) and NIH's common Journal Publishing Document Type Definition (DTD) that would provide semantic cues to machines to answer specific queries contained within text without removing publisher barriers to public access.
Academic institutions have also become involved in the text mining initiative:
The National Centre for Text Mining (NaCTeM), is the first publicly funded text mining centre in the world. NaCTeM is operated by the University of Manchester [1] in close collaboration with the Tsujii Lab, University of Tokyo. NaCTeM provides customised tools, research facilities and offers advice to the academic community. They are funded by the Joint Information Systems Committee (JISC) and two of the UK Research Councils (EPSRC & BBSRC). With an initial focus on text mining in the biological and biomedical sciences, research has since expanded into the areas of Social Science.
In the United States, the School of Information at University of California, Berkeley is developing a program called BioText to assist bioscience researchers in text mining and analysis.
Notable Software and applications
Research and development departments of major companies, including IBM and Microsoft, are researching text mining techniques and developing programs to further automate the mining and analysis processes. Text mining software is also being researched by different companies working in the area of search and indexing in general as a way to improve their results. There are a large number of companies that provide commercial computer programs:

AeroText - provides a suite of text mining applications for content analysis. Content used can be in multiple languages.
Autonomy - suite of text mining, clustering and categorization solutions for a variety of industries.
Endeca Technologies - provides software to analyze and cluster unstructured text.
Expert System S.p.A. - suite of semantic technologies and products for developers and knowledge managers.
Fair Isaac - leading provider of decision management solutions powered by advanced analytics (includes text analytics).
Inxight - provider of text analytics, search, and unstructured visualization technologies. (Inxight was bought by Business Objects that was bought by SAP AG in 2008)
LexisNexis - LexisNexis is a provider of business intelligence solutions based on an extensive news and company information content set. Through the recent acquisition of Datops LexisNexis is leveraging its search and retrieval expertise to become a player in the text and data mining field.
LanguageWare - Text Analysis libraries and customization tooling from IBM
Nstein Technologies - text mining solution that creates rich metadata to allow publishers to increase page views, increase site stickiness, optimize SEO, automate tagging, improve search experience, increase editorial productivity, decrease operational publishing costs, increase online revenues. In combination with search engines it is used to create semantic search applications.
RapidMiner/YALE - open-source data and text mining software for scientific and commercial use.
SAS - solutions including SAS Text Miner and Teragram - commercial text analytics, natural language processing, and taxonomy software leveraged for Information Management.
SPSS - provider of SPSS Text Analysis for Surveys, Text Mining for Clementine, LexiQuest Mine and LexiQuest Categorize, commercial text analytics software that can be used in conjunction with SPSS Predictive Analytics Solutions.
STATISTICA - By StatSoft Inc; provides STATISTICA Text Miner as an optional extension to STATISTICA Data Miner, for Predictive Analytics Solutions.
Thomson Data Analyzer - Enables complex analysis on patent information, scientific publications and news.
Notable Open-source software and applications
GATE - natural language processing and language engineering tool.
YALE/RapidMiner with its Word Vector Tool plugin - data and text mining software.
UIMA - UIMA (Unstructured Information Management Architecture) is a component framework for analysing unstructured content such as text, audio and video, originally developed by IBM.
Implications
Until recently websites most often used text-based lexical searches; in other words, users could find documents only by the words that happened to occur in the documents. Text mining may allow searches to be directly answered by the semantic web; users may be able to search for content based on its meaning and context, rather than just by a specific word.
Additionally, text mining software can be used to build large dossiers of information about specific people and events. For example, by using software that extracts specifics facts about businesses and individuals from news reports, large datasets can be built to facilitate social networks analysis or counter-intelligence. In effect, the text mining software may act in a capacity similar to an intelligence analyst or research librarian, albeit with a more limited scope of analysis.
Text mining is also used in some email spam filters as a way of determining the characteristics of messages that are likely to be advertisements or other unwanted material.
Notes
^ Unstructured Data and the 80 Percent Rule
^ K. Bretonnel Cohen & Lawrence Hunter (2008). "Getting Started in Text Mining". PLoS Computational Biology. 4 (1): e20. doi:10.1371/journal.pcbi.0040020.  Unknown parameter |month= ignored (help)
^ Tor-Kristian Jenssen, Astrid Lægreid, Jan Komorowski1 & Eivind Hovig (2001). "A literature network of human genes for high-throughput analysis of gene expression". Nature Genetics. 28: 21–28. doi:10.1038/ng0501-21 (inactive 2008-06-20). PMID 11326270.  CS1 maint: Multiple names: authors list (link)

Summary: Daniel R. Masys (2001). "Linking microarray data to the literature". Nature Genetics. 28: 9–10. doi:10.1038/ng0501-9 (inactive 2008-06-20). PMID 11326264. 


Summary: Daniel R. Masys (2001). "Linking microarray data to the literature". Nature Genetics. 28: 9–10. doi:10.1038/ng0501-9 (inactive 2008-06-20). PMID 11326264. 
^ Andreas Doms, Michael Schroeder (2005). "GoPubMed: exploring PubMed with the Gene Ontology". Nucleic Acids Research. 33: W783–W786. doi:10.1093/nar/gki470. PMID 15980585. 
^ Francisco Couto, Mário J. Silva, V. Lee, E. Dimmer, E. Camon, R. Apweiler, H. Kirsch, D. Rebholz-Schuhmann (2006). "GOAnnotator: linking electronic protein GO annotation to evidence text". Journal of Biomedical Discovery and Collaboration. 1 (19). doi:10.1186/1747-5333-1-19. PMID 1718185.  CS1 maint: Multiple names: authors list (link)
^ Kristof Coussement, and Dirk Van den Poel (2008). "Integrating the Voice of Customers through Call Center Emails into a Decision Support System for Churn Prediction". Information and Management.  Unknown parameter |month= ignored (help)
^ Bo Pang, Lillian Lee, and Shivakumar Vaithyanathan (2002). "Thumbs up? Sentiment Classification using Machine Learning Techniques" (PDF). Proceedings of the Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP). pp. 79–86.  CS1 maint: Multiple names: authors list (link)
^ Alessandro Valitutti, Carlo Strapparava, Oliviero Stock (2005). "Developing Affective Lexical Resources" (PDF). Psychology Journal. 2 (1): 61–83.  CS1 maint: Multiple names: authors list (link)
References
Sophia Ananiadou and John McNaught (Editors), Text Mining for Biology and Biomedicine, Artech House Books (2006), ISBN 978-1-58053-984-5
Ronen Feldman and James Sanger, The Text Mining Handbook, Cambridge University Press, ISBN 9780521836579
Kao Anne, Poteet, Steve R. (Editors), Natural Language Processing and Text Mining, Springer, ISBN 184628175X
Konchady Manu "Text Mining Application Programming (Programming Series)" by Manu Konchady, Charles River Media, ISBN 1584504609
M. Ikonomakis, S. Kotsiantis, V. Tampakas, Text Classification Using Machine Learning Techniques, WSEAS Transactions on Computers, Issue 8, Volume 4, August 2005, pp. 966–974 (http://www.math.upatras.gr/~esdlab/en/members/kotsiantis/Text%20Classification%20final%20journal.pdf)
See also
Approximate nonnegative matrix factorization, an algorithm used for text mining
BioCreative text mining evaluation in biomedical literature
Business intelligence
Computational linguistics
Concept Mining
Data mining
Information retrieval
Name resolution
National Centre for Text Mining (NaCTeM)
Natural language processing
Stop words
Text analytics
Text classification sometimes is considered a (sub)task of text mining.
UIMA Unstructured Information Management Architecture from IBM.
Web mining, a task that may involve text mining (e.g. first find appropriate web pages by classifying crawled web pages, then extract the desired information from the text content of these pages considered relevant).
w-shingling
External links
Marti Hearst: What Is Text Mining? (October, 2003)
Categories
Pages with DOIs inactive since 2008
Artificial intelligence applications
Data mining
Computational linguistics
